### 4.SYNCHRONIZATION

#### 4.1 Categories

###### 4.1.1 Basic synchronization
- Join

###### 4.1.2 Exclusive locking
- Monitor, lock
- Mutex (computer-wide locks) 
- SpinLock

##### 4.1.3 Non exclusive locking
The purpose is to _limit_ the concurrency
- Semaphore (Slim)
- ReaderWriterLock

##### 4.1.4 Sigaling
A thread can be block until receiving one or more notifaction
- ManualResetEvent(Slim)
- AutoResetEvent
- CountdownEvent
- Barrier

##### 4.1.5 _Nonblocking synchronization construct_

- Thread.MemoryBarrier
- Thread.VolatileRead
- Thread.VolatileWrite

##### 4.1.6 Declarative synchronization: inheritance from _ContextBoundObject_ and _Synchronization_ attribute
There are two ways to use locks:
- lock manually
- to lock _declaratively_.

```cs

using System;
using System.Threading;
using System.Runtime.Remoting.Contexts;

[Synchronization]
public class MyClassToLock : ContextBoundObject
{
	public void Go()
	{
		Console.WriteLine("My auto lock");
	}
}

public static void Main()
{
	MyClassToLock safeInstance = new MyClassToLock();
	new Thread(safeInstance.Go).Start();
	new Thread(safeInstance.Go).Start();
}
```




#### 4.2 Thread Join

```cs
static void Main()
{
	Thread t = new Thread(() => for(int cpt = 0; cpt < 1000; cpt++){Console.WriteLine(cpt)});
	t.Start();
	t.Join();
}
```
The main thread will be blocked during the execution of the thread t. 
Problem: when a thread is blocked, the CPU starts an another thread (=> switch context)

#### 4.3 Mutual exclusion

Let have a look on the different mutual exclusion.

##### 4.3.1 Lock

Space name : System.Threading.Monitor



##### 4.3.2 Monitor

```cs
lock (x)
{
    DoSomething();
}
```

This is equivalent to:

```cs
System.Object obj = (System.Object)x;
System.Threading.Monitor.Enter(obj);
try
{
    DoSomething();
}
finally
{
    System.Threading.Monitor.Exit(obj);
}
```

##### 4.3.3 Mutex

A Mutex is like a C# lock, but it can work across multiple processes. In other words, Mutex can be computer-wide as well as application-wide.

Acquiring and releasing an uncontended Mutex takes a few microseconds — about 50 times slower than a lock.

```cs
using(var mutex = new Mutex(true, "Olivier Mounicq Developer"))
{
	try
	{
		...
	}
	catch(Exception ex)
	{
	}
	finally
	{
		mutex.ReleaseMutex();
	}
}
```


##### 4.3.5 Lock vs Mutex

So, the differences between Lock and Mutex are:
- lock is a compiler keyword, not an actual class or object. 
- Lock is a wrapper around the functionality of the Monitor class and is designed to make the Monitor easier to work with for the common case.
- The Monitor (and the lock keyword) are restricted to the AppDomain
- Mutex is specific to the Operating System allowing you to perform cross-process locking and synchronization.
- Mutex is a cross process
- Mutex is kernel object (use it in the kernel mode)
- Lock is an user object (in the user mode)
- Lock is pure .net object


##### 4.3.3 Performance
With computer on 2015-aera:
- Lock about 50 nanosec to aquire and release a lock
- Mutex about 1 microsecond

Switching from the user mode (the application run in the user mode) to the kernel mode by using _mutex_ take time and the performances are worse.

##### 4.3.3 Lock's drawbacks
- locks block the threads
- locks are slow
- Deadlock

#### 4.4 Non exclusive locks

#### 4.4.1 Semaphore

A semaphore with a capacity of one is similar to a Mutex or lock, except that the semaphore has no “owner” — it’s thread-agnostic. Any thread can call Release on a Semaphore, whereas with Mutex and lock, only the thread that obtained the lock can release it.

#### 4.4.2 ReaderWriterLockSlim

- EnterReadLock()
- ExitReadLock()
- EnterWriteLock()
- ExitWriteLock()

ReaderWriterLockSlim allows more concurrent Read activity than a simple lock.

### 5. Concurrent list or Thread safe list

By default the enumerating collections are thread-unsafe : an exception is thrown if the list is modified during the enumaration. (To avoid the exception, we must duplicate the enumeration before to enumerate the items) 

#### 5.1 The different concurrent lists

The differerent concuurent lists are:
- BlockingCollection<T> : Provides bounding and blocking functionality for any type that implements _IProducerConsumerCollection<T>_
- ConcurrentDictionary<TKey, TValue> : a thread safe dictionary
- ConcurrentQueue<T> : FIFO thread safe list
- ConcurrentStack<T> : LIFO thread safe list
- ConcurrentBag<T> : unordered thread safe list
- IProducerConsummerCollection<T> : The interface that a type must implement to be used in a _BlockingCollection_

